System Mode: 
    System mode derives the running code by disregarding the user’s consent. For example: If a logged-in user wants to create a record in system mode. Create permission is not required for the creation of records in this mode.
    Apex code approaches to all objects and field approvals, sharing rules, field-level security is not applied for the recent user. So that it ensures you that apex code won’t disregard to run because they don’t have the field or object permission.
    In salesforce, We all know that all the apex code runs in System mode because it ignores the user's approvals. Just an exception is obscure squares like architect  console and standard controllers. Without a doubt, even the runAs() method doesn't implement user assets or field-level approvals, it just maintains record sharing.

User Mode:
    User mode is similar to running the apex code with respect to user’s support and their sharing of records. For example:  If a logged-in user wants to create a record in user mode. Create permission is required for the creation of records in this mode.
    In this mode, field-level security, field approvals, sharing rules, and profile level approvals are put in for recent users.
    In Salesforce, only standard controllers and developer consoles run in user mode.
    Let’s think about the operation and their mode of execution in Salesforce...

**Here is the list of operations that runs on System Mode and User Mode.

              Apex trigger - System Mode
              All types of Jobs like Batch and scheduler apex -  System Mode
              Anonymous Apex - User Mode
              Apex Web Services (means SOAP API and REST API) - System Mode
              Auto-Response Rule - System Mode
              Assignment Rule - System Mode
              Chatter - User Mode
              Email Service - User Mode
              Test method with System.runAs() -  User Mode
              Test method without System.runAs() - System Mode
              Validation Rule -  System Mode
              Workflow Rule - System Mode
              Escalation Rule - System Mode
              Formula Field - System Mode
              Rollup Summary Field -  System Mode
              Process Builder - System Mode
              Visual Workflow or flow - By default it runs on User Mode
              if it is called from the Process Builder - System Mode
              if it is called from the Workflow -  System Mode
              if it is called from Apex then it depends on with or without sharing of apex class.
              if it is called from Custom Button - System Mode
              if it is embedded in Visualforce – Depends on VF Page context
              if it is called from REST API – System Mode
              Approval Process - System Mode
              Publisher Action - System Mode
              InvocableMethod
              if this method is called from flow – User mode
              if this method is called from Process Builder – System mode
              if this method is called from REST API – (depends on with or without sharing of the class)
              Custom Button - System Mode
              Visualforce Page 
              StandardController – User Mode
              StandardController with extension – System Mode
              Custom Controller - It depends on with or without sharing the Apex controller class.
